---
layout: post
title:      "My Sinatra Project Blog Post"
date:       2017-10-31 18:24:16 +0000
permalink:  my_sinatra_project_blog_post
---


I am finally getting this done. I don't know what's been wrong with me through this Sinatra section. It's been a mix of missing motivation and outside stress. For a minute I thought I may have to switch to the community-powered version of the bootcamp but here I am still working through the program.
It's taken me much too long to get through this section. Waiting so long to complete it has not been a good experience. I redid several labs to refresh my memory and find myself having to read up and refresh myself pretty often. I didn't do that nearly as often when I worked steadily through Ruby. It's definitely been a trial. 
With that being said, here I am, nearly ready to commit my final project. I ran into a bump when I opened my project after a few days and a lot of routes seemed broken. I was certain that I had left everything in near complete condition last I bugged around with it so that was a bit frustrating. I still have one last hurdle before submitting the entire project but I'm confident I'll get there. I will say that actually doing the prep work with corneal and integrating bootstrap was a LOT easier than I anticipated. I really expected it to explode in a dozen places in the initial setup but I ran shotgun and got my '/' page right away. I enjoyed toying around with bootstrap and creating my layout, background pattern, home screen images, even saved a page with a map for future use.
My project is basically a bit of google maps, yelp, and instagram all put together. Well, that's certainly not what it is right now but that is the plans I have for it. It's an idea I've had for awhile and I'm calling it Plot. Right now a user can make an account and add markers, or places, that they have visited and add details about those places. 
In the future I'm going to add another model for Plots. Plots will have many markers and will belong to a user. The idea is that when you take a trip, Plot will act like a travel journal in that you can log the places(markers) on your trip(Plot). Leave reviews and locations about where you've been. Hopefully in the future there will be an upload tool for photos and videos and a live map to display all the markers on your Plot. Other people can review your Plot for travel ideas or you can just use Plot as a journal. 
A struggle I've had with this project is getting the flash messages to work. I did for a minute get them to work but there were a few routes, like a forced delete where it wouldn't work. I walked away for a few days, came back and the whole thing was broken so I had to go back to a previous commit and and the most recent commit didn't have my flash messages working. WHYYYYY do I do this to myself!?! Laughing and crying right now.
After a tough slog through this section it was really exciting to get something up and running that looked pretty decent. It made me pretty excited to get into future sections and add more of the features I have in mind for this app. I wanted to keep this project as just passing the requirements and stopped myself from trying to go all out. I think having something to keep working on will be a good way to step away from coursework when I feel bogged down or to help get my motivation back into gear. 
It's been a really good experience, albeit a tough one and feels really good to have something to show for the last couple of months.
