---
layout: post
title:  "Why I decided to learn software development?"
date:   2017-07-13 13:24:27 +0000
---


This isn't an easy question to answer. 

**The short answer is:**
I honestly never imagined I would want to learn software development--- until I tried it. 

**The long answer is as follows:** 
My first job was grunt work in a warehouse. My dad is in the beverage distribution business so as a kid we spent a lot of time playing around in the warehouse. (Don't tell OSHA.) It was a logical place to start as a first job. After some time I got a new job in a hardware store, in a giant warehouse. I drove trucks and made deliveries for that hardware store. I moved to another delivery job with Amazon as Amazon Fresh was just getting started in Seattle. I didn't realize it at the time but that's when I got bit by the startup bug. This pace where everyone is just trying to do it better than last time, always improving, trying new ideas, and admitting triumphantly when it was a shit idea. 

*I'm going to stop for a moment and say this is where I learned something very important: If you don't agree with a process or a workflow in your job-- don't complain. Prove that it doesn't work. Nobody listens to a complainer. Prove that there is something wrong with it and then offer a solution.* 

Back to my story... even though we were run by a massive company we still had that mentality that I think can quickly get lost as a startup sees success and growth. I found myself in San Francisco a couple of years later and jobless. Ouch. Just as my savings had run out I got a job at 12 bucks an hour packing boxes for a tiny ecommerce startup. Employee #17 right here! You guys, the rate of growth I got to be a part of the 2'ish years I was there was addicting. In two years I went from packing boxes, to managing a fulfillment team, to the position of Data Quality Analyst for our remote warehouse and our list of 50,000 skus. My growth was possible because the company growth exploded. Not all that glitters is gold and it turns out that trying to ship household items, like furniture, is really expensive. I got to a point where I couldn't see a clear growth path and knew it was time to dip. 

*Also going to stop for a lesson I learned here: Be a little bit selfish. If you're not happy with your job or your path. Find a new one. Be proactive and take care of yourself.*

Fast forward to right now, I live in Atlanta. I moved here, worked a stint at a really dope sneaker shop as their receiving/inventory specialist then managed to get back into a gig as an analyst at a family-run rug and home goods wholesaler. I thought I was decent at excel before this analyst job and had a good understanding of how relational databases work. In the year I've been at the company I've almost reached wizard status in excel and can navigate around mySQL and crystal reports pretty decently. I've learned a lot in a year! But the job isn't very fulfilling. I could no longer see a clear growth path and needed to figure out what I could do to improve myself. My girlfriend (SHE'S NOW MY WIFE! I MARRIED HER!) suggest I look at coding. We had a friend who had done a bootcamp and seemed really happy with the career change. My wife and I have similar skills, excel, report building, etc. To be honest I had never considered it because let's be real, it's a bunch of nerdy guys who sit in front of their computers all the time and that just ain't me. Thought about it a little bit. Shrugged. She suggest it a few more times and I shrugged. Finally, a bit restless, I hopped on CodeAcademy and gave it a whirl. **Addicting.** Went through CSS and HTML, Javascript, started on Ruby. It made sense to me. All the report building I had done in excel helped me understand the structures I was seeing in these different languages. I realized the part I did enjoy about my job was linking up reports and building dashboards of information that people could interact with. It all made sense. (Imagine some AHA! moment like stars exploding in a dark universe and creating light and life in all its brilliant complexity. That's not what happened in this moment but just to add a visual aide for dramatic effect.) I decided I needed more but CrackAcademy was giving it to me too easy. I wanted to actually learn it and just copy answer from here and paste here. I tried other tutorials and started looking at bootcamps near me. Maybe that's when I realized, "oh hey, I can actually do this." I started reading more about what it takes to be a programmer (because I was insanely worried that CrackAcademy had tricked me and that maybe I didn't have the right skillset) and the importance of knowing how to learn and be a bit self-taught. That's me. I've taught myself everything up to this point. I can do this. I applied to a few bootcamps to compare. They were all insanely expensive and time-intensive and I was still just a bit unsure of myself. My wife, the gem that she is, said, "if you're going to do this, you should go through a really good program. Don't settle on just any program. Do the best program." And well, my friends, that's how I ended up here. Just grinding to be better than yesterday, trying to max out on my potential and pursue something that will give me growth, freedom and flexibility. Hopefully that means a career as a developer. 

See ya out there.

